Role: Financial Services Organization - Technology Consultant Program Summer Internship

1. With that purpose in mind, why are you exploring a career at EY
  and what interests yo, specifically, about the role you're applying for?

  My curiosity with EY started ever since I moved into Hoboken and walked past
  the massive EY offices on the Hoboken pier. This curiosity led to quick 
  google searches where I started truly learning and being captivated by
  the work at EY. I though it was awesome the way EY was applying cutting 
  edge technology, specifically software technologies, such as machine learning
  and blockchain. Now that I am a bit further along into my software career, 
  having done some freelance and consultation work as a software engineer, I
  have only become more interested in EY as consultation is a core product at
  EY. My curiosity about how EY tackles consultation and helps their customers
  adopt technologies is whats got me so excited about this opportunity to be
  a intern at EY's Technology Consultant program. I want to learn about how
  EY is helping clients transition and utilize technology in this modern
  technology revolution.


2. Provide an example of a time when you improved the quality of work from 
  your team. What was the driver for change? What steps did you take to 
  implement the change and ensure continued quality.

  A time I improved the quality of work for a team was during a class project
  where we were tasked with parsing large genealogy data sets. Our team was a
  a team of 8, the largest in the class which presented a challenge on it own.
  When we started coding, there was a general consensus to 'figure it out as
  we go' that quickly lead to issue related to version control and pushing code 
  would often lead to merge conflicts. 
  
  This friction would ultimately be the driver for change. I started 
  researching version control, github, and best practices. Then during a 
  team meeting where we discussed this issue I proposed we implement pull 
  requests so code can be reviewed by all team members before
  being merged, utilizing branching, adding security to the master branch, and 
  a naming scheme for all files and components of the project.
  
  To help smoothen the transition to this new system and utulizing what I 
  learned through earlier research I paired with every team member and 
  meticulously help merge their code using this new version control system. 
  During the process I strengthen my own github and version control knowledge 
  while teaching my teammates.


3. With this perspective in mind, outline a disruptive or innovative idea 
  you’ve introduced to a team. What was the disruptive or innovative idea, 
  what problem was it solving and what was the outcome?

  During this summer I joined a small team of engineers at a young startup. 
  When I joined we were using React on the frontend and Google Firebase
  as a serverless backend. We were focused on building features at the time
  and did not have any automated testing or CI.

  This lead me to propose we utulize a product from Google called Firebase 
  Tools which allowed developers to run local instances of Firebase products
  such as Firestore, Auth, and Cloud Functions.

  Having this tool would mean...
  - that the team could save money by not sending api requests to a 
  production database
  - that we had a mock environment to easily write automated tests
  - that developers could have a better building experiences as they would 
  be able to have their own local independent instance of firebase that they
  could mess with.

  ultimately, this tool allowed us to increase our velocity as a team and 
  build much more robust systems by writing tests.


4. Tell me about a new business technical skill or business technology 
that you have recently learned. How do you keep up-to-date with and learn 
about new technical skills or new technologies? How have you applied that 
skill or expertise at work, in school or on a team?

A new skill that I recently became interested in this winter break was
machine learning. Through research and asking my network of friends who were
already familar with ML I landed on quite a bit of online resources that 
I used to learn about ML. I purchases a course on Udemy that was conveniently
on sale and did a free course on Coursera taught by Andrew Ng who is a famous
ML engineer and professor at Stanford. In addition to these courses I began 
reading countless Medium articles about the latest ML trends such as
AlphaFold 2 from the awesome engineers at Deepmind. 

I have been able to apply my newfound knowledge mostly in conversations 
with my peers and teammates. I found that having simple knowledge about the 
nuances, arithmetic, and context to ML concepts have allowed to have much more
deep conversation about ML. As a results, I have been able to learn quite 
just by having conversations with people and learning from others experiences.
All because I simply learned the basics of ML which open the doorway for me
to learn much more. 
